---
title: "2024 Reading List"
date: 2024-12-31
author: "SocraticDev"
image: ../../images/2024booksread.png
tags:
  - ideas
  - growth
---

### My Book of the Year - _Project Hail Mary_ by Andy Weir, narrated by Ray Porter

_Project Hail Mary_ by Andy Weir, narrated by Ray Porter in its English audiobook version, is a science fiction novel that might appeal even to those, like me, who aren’t particularly fond of the genre.

The story is remarkably well-constructed, with a narrative about an improbable and unprecedented friendship.

It’s actually the most recommended audiobook on Reddit, and rightfully so.

> Ryland Grace is the sole survivor of a desperate mission, a last-ditch effort. If he fails, humanity and Earth itself will perish.
>
> Except right now, he doesn't know that. He doesn't even remember his own name, let alone the nature of his mission or how to complete it.
>
> All he knows is that he’s been asleep for a very, very long time. And he’s just woken up to discover he's millions of miles from home, with only two dead bodies for company.

### Dan Davies, _The Unaccountability Machine: Why Big Systems Make Terrible Decisions_

I read this book by English economist [Daniel Davies](https://profilebooks.com/contributor/dan-davies/) on the recommendation of a friend I met online.

At first glance, I was expecting a scathing critique of the big corporations on which our lives depend. I was ready for my disillusionment with these giants to be reignited.

Instead, it was a fascinating introduction to economic and political cybernetics, a powerful framework for understanding power dynamics within modern organizations.

#### Cybernetics

>[...]Control theory as it is applied to complex systems. Cybernetics is
>associated with models in which a monitor compares what is happening to a
>system at various sampling times with some standard of what should be
>happening, and a controller adjusts the system’s behaviour accordingly.
>
>The term cybernetics comes from the ancient Greek word kybernetikos (“good at steering”), referring to the art of the helmsman. 
>
>Source: "[cybernetics](https://www.britannica.com/science/cybernetics)" - Britannica

### Chris Dixon, _Read Write Own: Building the Next Era of the Internet_

This book addresses a major issue that Web 3.0 technologies aim to solve: _ensuring ownership without relying on central authorities_

Distributed systems based on blockchain are often ridiculed due to financial bubbles or fraud in the sector. Yet, behind this smoke screen are legitimate use cases, where these technologies play a crucial role.

I recommend this book to any technologist looking to contribute to "the next big tech innovation."

### Vijay Boyapati, _The Bullish Case for Bitcoin_

Probably the best explanation of Bitcoin and why you should care about it or steer clear of it.

### Peter Frankopan, _The New Silk Road: The Asia and the Remaking of the World Order_

As a Westerner, this book opened my eyes to what’s happening in the rest of the world economically.

### Gérard Chauvy, _L'Abwehr: 1939-1945 le Service Secret en France_

> Working with spies is like playing tennis without seeing your opponent, while
> never being sure if you’re really being served a tennis ball

The Abwehr was the Nazi Germany’s military intelligence service, responsible for espionage and counter-espionage, active from 1920 to 1945.

How do foreign intelligence services operate? Not at all like in a James Bond's movie.

This well-documented book explores the profiles of individuals working for foreign intelligence services, how their operations are funded, and the extent of the damage they cause to the societies they infiltrate.

### Joseph Cox, _Dark Wire_

A great read for tech enthusiasts with a taste for the illegal.

> In 2018, a powerful secure communication app called Anom took root among organized criminals. They thought Anom allowed them to do business in the shadows. Except one thing: it was secretly run by the FBI.
>
> The covert access to Anom and a series of related investigations allowed U.S., Australian, and European authorities to closely observe the world of criminals. Smugglers, money launderers, hitmen, a sprawling global economy... But as the FBI began to lose control of Anom, did the agency go too far?

### Haruki Murakami, _Absolutely on Music: Conversations with Seiji Ozawa_

I started reading this more for the author, Haruki Murakami, than for the subject: internationally renowned conductor Seiji Ozawa.

The book is a series of captivating interviews where we discover the complex role of a conductor. I was fascinated by the personalities and flaws of some maestros, who remain deeply human despite their exceptional talent.

#### Carlos Castaneda, _The Devil's Grass and the Little Smoke_

A rereading of a fantastic tale that had deeply captivated me during my adolescence. A mystical and fascinating journey into the depths of perception and reality.

#### Dany Laferrière, _A Certain Art of Living_

A booklet of poetry by our immortal Quebecois

Truly unpretentious, the ideas are expressed with disarming simplicity. These poems create an intimate connection between the reader and the author, a silent but deep dialogue.

#### Dostoevsky, _Crime and Punishment_

Another rereading that’s worth coming back to.

It’s common to hear that _Crime and Punishment_, like other 19th-century doorstop novels, is an intimidating read, even unapproachable. Nothing could be further from the truth, in my experience:

1. **The story is fascinating**, especially the complex psychology of the characters.
2. **The novel is divided into short chapters** (10 to 20 pages), perfect for a daily reading session of about an hour.
3. Finally, **immersion in this narrative is far more rewarding** than binge-watching videos on the internet.

#### Scott Paterson, _Chaos Kings: How Wall Street Traders Make Billions in the New Age of Crisis_

A book I don’t remember reading in detail... A reread is definitely in order for 2025.

> A seasoned Wall Street Journal journalist explores the world of billionaire traders and high-risk crisis forecasters trying to turn extreme events into financial opportunities.
>
> There’s no doubt our world has become more extreme. Pandemics, climate change, superpower rivalries, technological disruptions, political radicalization, religious fundamentalism: all threats creating chaos that puts trillions of dollars in assets at risk. But around the world, in a variety of disciplines, super-forecasters are trying to eliminate uncertainty in what was once thought of as pure randomness. Some place their faith in “black swans” – unpredictable and catastrophic events that can’t be anticipated but send exotic financial instruments into extremely profitable directions. The most famous of this group of high-stakes traders are the ones managing the Universa fund, who, during extreme upheaval days, have made up to a billion dollars.
>
> Author Scott Patterson gained exclusive access to Universa’s strategists and met with sharp-minded visionaries in various fields, from earthquake prediction to counterterrorism to climatology, to see if it’s really possible to bet on catastrophes – and win. Captivating, relevant, and revealing, this book is a must-read for anyone questioning how some investors today turn disasters into profits.

#### Seth Rogen, _Yearbook_

A hilarious book! Best enjoyed in audiobook form, read by Seth Rogen himself,
who adds an inimitable touch to his stories.

His stoner laughter is priceless

#### Patrick Bringley, _All the Beauty in the World: The Metropolitan Museum of Art and Me_

A fascinating stay in the life stories of a museum guard in New York City. A unique perspective on art and everyday life in an iconic place.

#### Eliyahu M. Goldratt, _The Goal_

For fans of the novel _The Phoenix Project_, this book is a must-read!  

In _The Goal_, you'll discover the counter-intuitive truths of the Theory of Constraints, an essential lesson for improving any workflow, whether in technology or elsewhere.

#### Tom Segura, _I'd Like to Play Alone, Please: Essays_

Another hilarious read! A must-listen audiobook read by Tom Segura himself, to fully enjoy his sharp humor.

#### Christopher Hadnagy, _Social Engineering, 2nd Edition_

A practical guide for becoming a social engineering security professional

This book taught me a lot about vulnerabilities to psychological manipulation attempts

Becoming aware of your weaknesses is always a step in the right direction

#### Olivier Boisvert-Magnen, _Jean Leloup: Moments of Lucidity_

I thought I knew everything about Jean Leloup... but not at all!

This book is full of fascinating and touching stories about this unique artist, as well as the talented musicians who have accompanied him since the 1980s.

> "As Hubert Lenoir so aptly puts it in his preface: Jean Leloup is a
> superhero. He appears and disappears, no one knows where he is or what he
> will do today, or tomorrow. He speaks his own accent, because he
> comes from his own country, his own planet. A unique figure in the
> history of Quebec’s music, it was high time a book worthy of him was
> written. Moments of Lucidity is an exploration of Leloup’s discography,
> the most influential and irreverent of our singer-songwriters over the last four decades." (summary)

### Michel Tremblay, _Dear Chekhov_

End the year on a high note with a play by our national playwright.

This text illustrates the rivalries of a family of actors during a family meal.

`translated from french by Chatgpt`
