---
title: "FUD and How to Make decisions in the AI Era"
date: 2026-06-06
author: "SocraticDev"
image: ../../images/imitators.png
tags:
  - growth
  - philosophy
is_archived: false
---

> "The policy of being too cautious is the greatest risk of all"
>
> <cite>Jawaharlal Nehru, India's first Prime Minister</cite>

`FUD` is a useful acronym used to describe a complex situation
where rational decision making is in dire straits. A few first-movers will
often grab the opportunity of such situations by taking risks of making up
their mind and acting on it despite the uncertainty. While the majority will
hold on and take their time making a decision; usually living the situation
with anxiety and a lack of ownership over their decision making process.

The letter _F_ stands for _fear_ which is an
unpleasant and often strong emotion caused by the anticipation or awareness of
danger.

The letter _U_ stands for _uncertainty_ which is a state of a mind about not knowing something beyond doubt.

The letter _D_ stands for _doubt_ which is a cognitive state that ranges from
actively distrusting something or lacking confidence in something. To make this
characterisation actionable we should label _doubt_ as an interference to decision making.

Long story short, _FUD_ is a complex situation that manifests as an unpleasant
emotion - fear - mixed with cognitive states and activities - uncertainty, doubt.

Unless you are experiencing a distress that could cause you harm, this state of
thing should be considered as a wake up call. You are at a crossroad and either
you stop and think rationally about the situation in order to make the most out
of it, you delegate the thinking to others and conform to what an authority
figure or the mass decides, or you refuse to engage and do nothing.

Doing nothing is rare, risky, and powerful. Refusing to make a decision until
uncertainty has vanished is rarely a sound strategy. The world is complex, our
mental capacity limited, and most definitely time being a scarce resource,
those who thrive are the ones most at ease with ambiguity and uncertainty.

The second worse decision is to follow the crowd. Delegate our decision making
and rational powers to the mass or to a figure of authority. Related by Robert
Cialdini, an expert in the psychology of persuasion, 95% of people are
imitators. Most of their decision making is justified by _social proof_. Imitators
assume their actions are correct based on the evidence that others are doing it
too. Despite the occasional slip up, this strategy allows most of humanity to
get on with life with a good probability of making good decisions rather than bad
ones.

The initiators, the 5% left, are the most interesting ones. By _initiators_ I
mean the small group of innovators and early adopters who are comfortable with
uncertainty, willing to experiment, and take ownership of their own decisions. What
distinguishes them from the mass is an intimate sense of ownership over their
decisions. It doesn't mean that they are systematically wealthier or the most successful
people. It just means that for the initiators, the fact that many people do
something is not a valid justification for a decision to be made.

First and foremost, they are at ease with uncertainty and ambiguity. Most
successful tech entrepreneurs, especially venture capitalists, are initiators
because they have built in their business models the notion of uncertainty.

Modern Game Theory Economics caters to the initiators. Game Theory is a
mathematical way to formalize decision making in a context of collaboration
with other actors. Being a rational actor in Game Theory means being consistent
over time in making decisions that maximize the expected utility. Making
rational decisions is related to maximizing the outcomes not doing what others
around us are doing.

Von Neumann-Morgenstern (vNM) utility functions are used
to characterize various real life decision making processes that are called
_lotteries_. More or less shrewd in uncertainty, the utility theory helps
shape the decision making process by quantifiying expected utility by taking
risk and uncertainty in consideration. For
example, a _lottery_ where you have a 99% chance of winning 10$ can be
rationally preferred to another _lottery_ where you have 1% chance of winning
1,000$. When you consider risk aversion, you can explain away that most people
prefers a less valuable lottery.

```
Lottery A: 99% × $10 = $9.90 expected value

Lottery B: 1% × $1,000 = $10.00 expected value
```

Imitators are fundamentally risk averse. They will pick lottery A. While
initiators, usually risk takers, are most likely to take a step back and
pick lottery B since it is most valuable.

### Nobody gets fired for buying IBM

Historically, _Fear, Doubt, and Uncertainty_ have always been at work in human
psychology. We have some baked-in default settings such as loss aversion, aversion
toward ambiguity, and a bias favorable to _status quo_.

Computer scientist Gene Amdahl used the term _FUD_ in the mid 1970s to
illustrate IBM's sales tactics. IBM sales people would never directly scare off
IT equipment purchasers but they would use clever insinuations to prevent
decision makers from steering away from purchasing equipment and services from
IBM. "What if you lose your division's data while migrating to a competitor's
system?"

### taming fear, uncertainty, and doubt

In 2026, AI adoption in all spheres of society via the form of LLM-based
chatbots and agents is a potent source of `FUD`. There are valid reasons to
fear AI, the situation is truly uncertain, and doubting the critics as well as
its proponents is a smart move.

At first.

Like all life challenge and historic shifts, stubbornly refraining from making
a decision could be a life sentence.

The easy option is to be an imitator, wait a bit, and follow the crowd. It's
most likely the safest option: you lose the least, but it's almost certain you
will not win.

Yet again, the 5% initiators are already set in their ways. A lot of the
original risks have been mitigated. While there are still valid reasons to be
doubtful and fearful, new business opportunities are ripe for the taking.

How will you tackle the fog of uncertainty and navigate the waters around the
AI storm?

1. Pause and describe yourself in this uncertain situation. List explicitly your values and your preferences
2. From what you know, put on your soothsayer's hat and predict a few plausible
   outcomes based on the decision you will take
3. Based on your preferences and your risk tolerance, estimate the _expected
   utility_ of each decision
4. Set an informal deadline for making a decision. This will motivate you to
   take action.

### links

https://www.reddit.com/r/LocalLLaMA/comments/1tp92dn/why_are_the_ai_companies_spreading_fud_about_ai/
